The purpose of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness in terms of response
rates, toxicity and survival of the combination chemotherapy regimen cisplatin
and epidoxorubicin (epirubicin) including medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA),
recombinant IL-2 (rIL-2) and antioxidants in patients with advanced (stage
IIIB-IV) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Thirty-three chemotherapy-naive
patients with NSCLC were enrolled in the study and 30 of them were evaluable. The
mean age of the patients was 61 years. Twenty (66.7%) out of 30 patients were
>or=60 years, and 5 (16.7%) patients were >or=70 years. The ECOG performance
status was 0 to 1 in 30 patients and 2 in 3 patients. Twenty-six patients (78.8%)
had stage IIIB disease and 7 (21.2%) had stage IV; histology was mainly squamous 
cell carcinoma (72.7%). The treatment consisted of cisplatin 40 mg/m2/week and
epirubicin 40 mg/m2/week both intravenously on day 1, rIL-2 1.8 MIU/day
subcutaneously, MPA 1 g/day orally, alpha-lipoic acid 300 mg/day orally and
N-acetyl cysteine 1.8 g/day orally. The treatment was administered for 6 weeks.
Patients with a complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease
(SD) continued the treatment, according to response re-evaluation, until 15
weeks. The present study reports the results of 6, 9, 12 and 15-week treatment.
After 6 weeks, 30 patients were assessable for response: no CR was observed, a PR
was achieved in 15 patients (50%; ORR 50%). After 15 weeks, 1 CR and 8 PR were
observed (ORR 30.0%). The median follow-up period was 13 months. The median
duration of response was 9 months. The median overall survival (OS) was 15
months. The one-year survival rate was 55.8%. The median progression-free
survival (PFS) was 10 months. The toxicity was, as expected, mainly hematologic: 
neutropenia was the most significant symptom. The non-hematologic toxicity was
quite low. Therefore, the treatment's toxicity was quite acceptable. There was no
toxic death. The 30.0% ORR, the 15 month OS and the 10 month PFS obtained in this
study are comparable with those observed with cisplatin plus epirubicin (ORR
39-54%) in phase II studies and in a previous phase III study (ORR 33%, OS 10.5
months). Moreover, the toxicity was acceptable and it was mainly hematologic.
Serum levels of proinflammatory cytokines significantly decreased after
treatment.