Chemotherapy followed by autologous transplantation may be an efficient salvage
treatment in malignant lymphomas. We investigated the feasibility, tolerability
and efficacy of an outpatient schedule of dexamethasone, cytarabine and cisplatin
(DHAP), followed by peripheral blood progenitor cell autografting as salvage
treatment in patients with high grade (HG), low grade (LG) non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
(NHL) and Hodgkin's Disease (HD). A total of 159 DHAP courses (median: 2, range: 
1-5), was administered on outpatient basis to 79 patients (31 LG-NHL, 28 HG-NHL
and 20 HD), with the intention to mobilize and to transplant. A successful
collection was not achieved in 40% LG-NHL, 10% HD and 20% HG-NHL patients. The
risk to fail the collection was significantly related to the number of previous
chemotherapy courses (>6) (P = 0.005, RR = 1.4), to the pretransplant status (P =
0.04, RR = 13.5) and to the previous fludarabine administration (P = 0.01, RR =
20). High dose therapy (HDT) was feasible in 60 patients (76%). The overall
treatment related mortality was 3.8%. The overall response rate (ORR) was 81%
with a 57.6% overall survival (OS) at 62 months (95% CI: 45-69.3%) and a
progression free survival (PFS) of 42% at 74 months (95% CI: 26.7-58%). The
diagnosis of HG-NHL and the non-response to DHAP resulted to reduce respectively 
the OS (P = 0.007, RR = 2.8) and PFS probability (P = 0.01, RR = 4.1). In
conclusion this outpatient schedule of DHAP is a well tolerated, efficient
salvage and mobilizing regimen not only in HG-NHL, but also in LG-NHL and in HD. 
Randomized studies are needed to better define the role of DHAP in LG-NHL and HD 
patients.