PURPOSE: Bevacizumab is an antibody that binds to vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) and has activity in metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
Interferon alfa (IFN) is a historic standard first-line treatment for RCC. A
prospective, randomized phase III trial of bevacizumab plus IFN versus IFN
monotherapy was conducted.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with previously untreated, metastatic clear-cell
RCC were randomly assigned to receive either bevacizumab (10 mg/kg intravenously 
every 2 weeks) plus IFN (9 million U subcutaneously three times weekly) or the
same dose and schedule of IFN monotherapy in a multicenter phase III trial. The
primary end point was overall survival (OS). Secondary end points were
progression-free survival (PFS), objective response rate (ORR), and safety.
RESULTS: Between October 2003 and July 2005, 732 patients were enrolled. The
prespecified stopping rule for OS has not yet been reached. The median PFS was
8.5 months in patients receiving bevacizumab plus IFN (95% CI, 7.5 to 9.7 months)
versus 5.2 months (95% CI, 3.1 to 5.6 months) in patients receiving IFN
monotherapy (log-rank P < .0001). The adjusted hazard ratio was 0.71 (95% CI,
0.61 to 0.83; P < .0001). Bevacizumab plus IFN had a higher ORR as compared with 
IFN (25.5% [95% CI, 20.9% to 30.6%] v 13.1% [95% CI, 9.5% to 17.3%]; P < .0001). 
Overall toxicity was greater for bevacizumab plus IFN, including significantly
more grade 3 hypertension (9% v 0%), anorexia (17% v 8%), fatigue (35% v 28%),
and proteinuria (13% v 0%).
CONCLUSION: Bevacizumab plus IFN produces a superior PFS and ORR in untreated
patients with metastatic RCC as compared with IFN monotherapy. Toxicity is
greater in the combination therapy arm.