PURPOSE: Sarcomas are among the most proangiogenic malignancies in preclinical
models. Phase I study results for ABT-510, which inhibits angiogenesis via a
novel thrombospondin-mimetic mechanism, suggested activity in soft tissue sarcoma
(STS) patients. This phase II study further evaluated the safety and efficacy of 
ABT-510 in advanced STS patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with metastatic or unresectable STS were randomly 
assigned to treatment with one of two ABT-510 dose schedules (20 mg once a day
[20 mg], n = 42; or 100 mg twice a day [200 mg], n = 46), which were
self-administered subcutaneously in 28-day treatment periods. End points included
progression-free survival (PFS), objective response rate (ORR), overall survival 
(OS), and safety.
RESULTS: Median PFS for the 20-mg arm was 94 days, with 4- and 6-month PFS rate
estimates of 42% and 24%, respectively. Median PFS for the 200-mg arm was 64
days, with 4- and 6-month PFS rate estimates of 41% and 32%, respectively.
Although only one objective response was noted, stable disease was observed in
52% (20 mg) and 48% (200 mg) of patients. Median OS was 431 days (20 mg) and 295 
days (200 mg). ABT-510 was well tolerated. Rare treatment-related grade 3 or 4
adverse events were one event each of hypotension, deep vein thrombosis, and
hypophosphatemia. ABT-510 pharmacokinetics were dose proportional, time
independent, and consistent with those in previous studies.
CONCLUSION: ABT-510 had a favorable safety profile, and the rate of disease
control and OS times were encouraging. However, with low ORR and lack of dose
response, the study failed to yield compelling evidence of strong single-agent
activity in STS.