OBJECTIVE: Panitumumab, a fully human monoclonal antibody targeting epidermal
growth factor receptor (EGFR), has antitumor activity and an acceptable safety
profile in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). This Phase 2 study 
evaluated efficacy, pharmacokinetics and safety of panitumumab in Japanese
patients with mCRC who developed progressive disease during or after
fluoropyrimidine, irinotecan and oxaliplatin chemotherapy.
METHODS: Eligible patients had histologically proven colorectal adenocarcinoma
and EGFR tumor expression in > or =1% of tumor cells by immunohistochemistry.
Patients received panitumumab 6 mg/kg every 2 weeks until disease progression or 
unacceptable toxicity. The primary endpoint was objective response rate (ORR) per
modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) by independent
central review. Secondary endpoints included progression-free survival (PFS),
overall survival (OS), pharmacokinetic parameters and incidence of adverse
events.
RESULTS: Fifty-two patients received at least one dose of panitumumab. Seven
patients had partial responses for a confirmed ORR of 13.5% (95% CI: 5.6, 25.8). 
Median PFS was 8.0 weeks (95% CI: 7.4, 11.4) and median OS was 9.3 months (95%
CI: 7.1, 12.8). Panitumumab pharmacokinetics were consistent with prior studies
in Japanese and non-Japanese patients. The most common treatment-related adverse 
events (all, worst grade 3) were acne (81%, 2%), dry skin (62%, 0%), rash (46%,
2%), paronychia (33%, 2%), pruritus (33%, 0%) and hypomagnesemia (33%, 0%). No
adverse event of infusion reaction was reported by the investigators.
CONCLUSIONS: Panitumumab monotherapy was active in Japanese patients with
chemotherapy-refractory mCRC, with pharmacokinetic and safety profiles similar to
those seen in prior studies.