PURPOSE: To investigate the efficacy and safety of axitinib, an oral, potent, and
selective inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors 1, 2, 
and 3 in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) refractory to prior
therapies that included, but were not limited to, sorafenib.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this multicenter, open-label, phase II study, patients
with sorafenib-refractory mRCC received a starting dose of axitinib 5 mg orally
twice daily. A one-arm, single-stage design was used to estimate the primary end 
point of objective response rate (ORR), defined by RECIST (Response Evaluation
Criteria in Solid Tumors). Secondary end points included safety, duration of
response, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and
patient-reported outcomes.
RESULTS: Of 62 patients recruited, 100% had received prior sorafenib, and 74.2%
had received two or more prior systemic treatments. The axitinib dose was
titrated to greater than 5 mg twice daily in 53.2% of patients, and 35.5% of
patients had the dose modified to less than 5 mg twice daily. In 62 patients
evaluable for response, the ORR was 22.6%, and the median duration of response
was 17.5 months. Median PFS and OS times were 7.4 months (95% CI, 6.7 to 11.0
months) and 13.6 months (95% CI, 8.4 to 18.8 months), respectively. All-causality
grade 3 to 4 adverse events included hand-foot syndrome (16.1%), fatigue (16.1%),
hypertension (16.1%), dyspnea (14.5%), diarrhea (14.5%), dehydration (8.1%), and 
hypotension (6.5%).
CONCLUSION: Axitinib has antitumor activity in patients with mRCC refractory to
prior VEGF-targeted therapy, including sorafenib. Toxicities were mild to
moderate and were manageable. A randomized, phase III trial to compare axitinib
with sorafenib in patients who have mRCC refractory to one prior first-line
therapy regimen is underway.