PURPOSE: This single-center, open-label, phase II trial evaluated the bortezomib,
pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD), and dexamethasone combination regimen
(VDD) as initial treatment for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma
(MM).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Enrolled patients (N = 40) received up to six 3-week cycles
of treatment with bortezomib 1.3 mg/m(2) intravenously (IV) on days 1, 4, 8, and 
11; PLD 30 mg/m(2) IV on day 4; and dexamethasone 20 to 40 mg daily as specified 
in the study design. The primary end point was the complete/near-complete
response (CR/nCR) rate after six cycles. Secondary end points included overall
response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS). 
The impact of VDD on stem-cell mobilization and collection also was evaluated.
RESULTS: After six cycles, the ORR was 85.0% (CR/nCR, 37.5%; very good partial
response [VGPR] or better, 57.5%). Patients who underwent stem-cell
transplantation (SCT) after VDD (n = 30) experienced increased rates of VGPR or
better (53.3% to 76.6% after SCT). Overall, 1-year PFS and OS rates were 92.5%
and 97.5%, respectively. Those who achieved VGPR or better after treatment with
VDD showed a significantly greater 1-year PFS versus those who achieved less than
VGPR (100% v 82%, respectively; P = .03). Similar results were observed in
patients who underwent SCT. Grades 3 or 4 hematologic toxicities occurred in < or
= 10% of patients; grade 2 painful neuropathy occurred in 7.5%; and grade 3
palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia occurred in 2.5%.
CONCLUSION: VDD is highly effective for initial treatment of MM followed by SCT
in appropriate patients, and it has a reasonable safety profile. Achievement of
VGPR or better with this initial therapy predicted longer PFS, regardless of the 
consolidation therapy given.