PURPOSE: To determine in patients, with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic
cancer (APC), efficacy and safety of treatment with intravenous paclitaxel loaded
polymeric micelle (GPM).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a multicenter, open-label Phase II study. Patients
with APC, ECOG performance status < or = 2, no prior chemotherapy and adequate
organ function were treated with 3-hour GPM infusions every 3 weeks. Initial
patients were treated with 435 mg/m(2) (n = 11). The dose was reduced for
subsequent patients to 350 or 300 mg/m(2) (n = 45). Primary endpoint was time to 
tumor progression (TTP).
RESULTS: 56 patients were enrolled. Median TTP for patients treated with 300 or
350 mg/m(2) doses was 3.2 months (95% CI, 2.6-4.2). Median progression free
survival (PFS) was 2.8 months (95% CI, 1.4-4.0). Median overall survival (OS) was
6.5 months (95% CI, 5.1-7.9). Among patients treated with above doses of GPM,
there was 1 complete remission (CR) and 2 partial remissions (PR) with an overall
response rate (ORR) of 6.7%. Disease control rate (CR + PR + stable disease) was 
60.0%. Most common grade 3 toxicities were: neutropenia (40.0%), fatigue (17.8%),
infection, dehydration, neuropathy (each 13.3%), and abdominal pain (11.1%).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of APC with GPM at a dose of 300 mg/m(2) q 3 weeks was
well tolerated and common toxicities were qualitatively similar to
Cremophor-based paclitaxel. GPM monotherapy resulted in OS and other efficacy
parameters preferable to that seen historically with gemcitabine. Future studies 
of GPM in combination with other agents for treatment of APC are warranted.