PURPOSE Little is known about comparison of the activity of different purine
nucleoside analogs in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We conducted a
randomized phase III trial to compare efficacy and safety of cladribine and
fludarabine, each combined with cyclophosphamide, in previously untreated
progressive CLL. PATIENTS AND METHODS Patients received cladribine at 0.12 mg/kg 
combined with cyclophosphamide at 250 mg/m(2) for 3 days intravenously (CC
regimen) or fludarabine at 25 mg/m(2) combined with cyclophosphamide at 250
mg/m(2) for 3 days intravenously (FC regimen), every 28 days for up to six
cycles. The primary end point was complete response (CR) rate. Secondary end
points included overall response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS),
overall survival (OS), and treatment-related toxicity. RESULTS Of 423 randomly
assigned patients (211 to CC and 212 to FC), 395 were evaluated in the final
analysis. The CR and ORR reached 47% and 88% in the CC arm and 46% and 82% in the
FC arm (P = .25 and P = .11, respectively). The median PFS was 2.34 years with CC
and 2.27 years with FC (P = .51). OS and grade 3/4 treatment-related toxicity
were also comparable. Moreover, we did not observe any significant differences in
CC and FC efficacy across different patient prognostic subgroups that included
patients with 17p13 (TP53 gene) deletion who had poor survival in both study
arms. CONCLUSION Cladribine and fludarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide 
are equally effective and safe first-line regimens for progressive CLL. Both
combinations have unsatisfactory activity in patients with 17p13 (TP53 gene)
deletion.