PURPOSE: To compare vinflunine (VFL) to docetaxel in patients with stage IIIB/IV 
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have experienced treatment failure with
first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Randomized, multicenter, phase III study, 551 patients
received either vinflunine 320 mg/m(2) or docetaxel 75 mg/m(2) every 21 days
until disease progression or serious toxicity. The primary end point was
progression-free survival (PFS). The noninferiority analysis was based on a 10%
difference (types I/II error rates: 5%/20%). Secondary end points included
response rate (ORR), response duration, overall survival (OS), clinical benefit, 
quality of life (QOL), and safety.
RESULTS: Median PFS was 2.3 months for each arm (HR, 1.004; 95% CI, 0.841 to
1.199). ORR, stable disease, median OS, were 4.4% versus 5.5%, 36.0% versus
39.6%, 6.7 versus 7.2 months (HR, 0.973; 95% CI, 0.805 to 1.176), respectively.
No significant difference in patient benefit and QOL (Functional Assessment of
Cancer Therapy-Lung). No unexpected adverse events were observed. Grade higher
than 0 (vinflunine v docetaxel) anemia (82.1% v 79.8%), neutropenia (49.3 v
39.02%), thrombocytopenia (30.6% v 14.3%), febrile neutropenia (3.3% v 4.7%),
constipation (39.2% v 11.7%), fatigue (36.6% v 33.9%), injection site reaction
(31.9% v 0.7%), nausea (26.7% v 23.7%), vomiting (23.8% v 14.2%), alopecia (19.8%
v 35.4%), stomatis (19.4% v 12.4%), abdominal pain (20.1% v 3.6%), myalgia (14.7%
v 6.6%), peripheral neuropathy (10.7% v 15.0%), arthralgia (7.0% v 7.7%),
diarrhea (6.2% v 12.4%), edema (1.5% v 5.4%), and nail disorders (1.1% v 5;1%)
were observed.
CONCLUSION: This noninferiority phase III study showed similar efficacy end
points for vinflunine and docetaxel. Despite higher rates of some adverse effects
(anemia, abdominal pain, constipation, fatigue) the overall toxicity profile of
vinflunine was manageable. Therefore, VFL may be another option in the
second-line treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC.