Although cladribine has been reported to be an active purine analog against
indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL), there are few reports of
combination use of cladribine and rituximab. This multicenter phase II study
evaluated the efficacy and toxicity of cladribine with rituximab (R-2-CdA)
therapy in relapsed or refractory indolent B-NHL. Twenty patients with the median
age of 58.5 yrs (range, 42-72) were enrolled and received R-2-CdA therapy from
April 2005 to July 2007. The median number of prior regimens was 2 (range, 1-3), 
and fifteen patients (75%) were previously treated with rituximab-containing
regimens. Disease histology included follicular lymphoma in 16 patients, MALT
lymphoma in two patients, nodal marginal B-cell lymphoma in one patient, and
lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma in one patient. The overall response rate (ORR) was
90%, with a complete response rate (CRR) of 70%. Estimated median
progression-free survival (PFS) time was 22.4 months (95%CI, 10.9-32.6 months) at
a median follow-up time of 27 months (range, 12-43). Two-year PFS and 2-yr
overall survival (OS) were 52.6% (95%CI, 31.0-73.2%) and 89.5% (95%CI,
66.1-97.3%), respectively. Grade 3 or grade 4 toxicities were neutropenia in 74% 
and thrombocytopenia in 11%. R-2-CdA therapy was demonstrated to have a high
activity with durable PFS and acceptable toxicity in relapsed or refractory
indolent B-NHL mostly pretreated with rituximab-containing therapy. Although a
large-scale trial is needed for confirmation, R-2-CdA therapy could be a good
salvage therapy option in relapsed or refractory indolent B-NHL.