OBJECTIVE: To study the efficacy and safety of cetuximab combined with
chemotherapy for patients with advanced colorectal cancer (ACRC) and unclear
K-ras status.
METHODS: Clinical data of 102 ACRC patients, treated by cetuximab combined with
chemotherapy in Sun Yat-sen Cancer Center from March 2005 to December 2008, were 
collected. The cumulative survival rate, objective response rate (ORR), disease
control rate (DCR), progression free survival (PFS) of the cases were calculated.
The difference in ORR, DCR, PFS and oval survival (OS) between the regimens used 
as first-line and non-first-line treatment, and between the regimens including
oxaliplatin and irinotecan were compared.
RESULTS: The overall ORR of cetuximab plus chemotherapy was 43.1%, DCR 73.5%,
median PFS 4.0 months, OS 28.5 months, and the 1-year, 3-year, and 5-year
survival rate was 89.2%, 50.9% and 27.5%, respectively. The differences in ORR
(50.0% vs. 40.0%, P = 0.344), DCR (78.1% vs. 72.9%, P = 0.571) and OS (51.0
months vs. 35.0 months, P = 0.396) between the regimens as first line and as
non-first line treatment were not statistically significant. However, the PFS of 
the regimen as first-line was longer than that as non-first-line treatment (PFS
5.5 months vs. 3.0 months, P = 0.001). The differences in ORR (54.2% vs. 40.0%, P
= 0.223), DCR (79.2% vs. 74.7%, P = 0.654), PFS (5.0 months vs. 3.0 months, P =
0.726) and OS (36.0 months vs. 40.0 months, P = 0.759) between cetuximab plus
oxliplatin and irinotecan were not statistically significant. The most common
side effects of cetuximab plus chemotherapy were acneiform eruption (80.4%, grade
3-4 in 9.8%), neutropenia (66.7%, grade 3-4 in 18.6%), and diarrhea (19.6%, grade
3-4 in 5.9%). No treatment-related death was recorded.
CONCLUSION: Patients with advanced colorectal cancer and unclear K-ras treated by
cetuximab combined with chemotherapy have good ORR and OS, and the regimen is
safe with less adverse events for them. There is no significant difference
between the efficacies of regimens as first line and as non-first line treatment,
and between cetuximab plus oxliplatin and cetuximab plus irinotecan regimens.