The aim of this phase II study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of
oxaliplatin plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin (LV) in metastatic breast
cancer (MBC) patients heavily pretreated with anthracyclines, taxanes,
vinorelbine, gemcitabine, and capecitabine. Sixty-two women who had received at
least 3 above-mentioned drug classes were treated with oxaliplatin 85 mg/m(2) as 
a 2-h infusion on day 1, LV 200 mg/m(2) as a 2-h infusion followed by bolus 5-FU 
400 mg/m(2) on day 1, and a continuous infusion of 5-FU 1,200 mg/m(2) for 44 h.
The median patient age was 52 years with a median of two involved organs, and the
metastases were mostly in the lung (53.2%), lymph nodes (51.6%), and liver
(45.2%). Patients had a median of three prior chemotherapy regimens. Forty-five
patients (72.6%) had prior exposure to all 5 classes of drugs. Based on an
intention-to-treat analysis, 60 patients were assessable for responses and 11
patients achieved a partial response (PR), giving an overall response rate (ORR) 
of 18.3%. Twenty-one (35%) patients had stable disease (SD), and of these, 8
achieved long SD (13.3%). The median progression-free survival (PFS) was 3
months, and the median overall survival (OS) was 10 months. Toxicity was mild to 
moderate with grade 3 or 4 neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and neuropathy
occurring in 14 (22.6%), 9 (14.5%), and 3 (4.8%) patients, respectively. The
study demonstrated that the combination of oxaliplatin plus 5-FU/LV was a
well-tolerated salvage regimen with moderate activity in patients with heavily
pretreated MBC.