PURPOSE: The AIO KRK-0104 randomized phase II trial investigated the efficacy and
safety of cetuximab combined with capecitabine and irinotecan (CAPIRI) or
capecitabine and oxaliplatin (CAPOX) in the first-line treatment of metastatic
colorectal cancer (mCRC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 185 patients with mCRC were randomly assigned to
cetuximab (400 mg/m(2) day 1, followed by 250 mg/m(2) weekly) plus CAPIRI
(irinotecan 200 mg/m(2), day 1; capecitabine 800 mg/m(2) twice daily days 1
through 14, every 3 weeks; or cetuximab plus CAPOX (oxaliplatin 130 mg/m(2) day
1; capecitabine 1,000 mg/m(2) twice daily day 1 through 14, every 3 weeks). The
primary study end point was objective response rate (ORR).
RESULTS: In the intention-to-treat patient population (n = 177), ORR was 46% (95%
CI, 35 to 57) for CAPIRI plus cetuximab versus 48% (95% CI, 37 to 59) for CAPOX
plus cetuximab. Analysis of the KRAS gene mutation status was performed in 81.4% 
of the intention to treat population. Patients with KRAS wild-type in the CAPIRI 
plus cetuximab arm showed an ORR of 50.0%, a PFS of 6.2 months and an OS of 21.1 
months. In the CAPOX plus cetuximab arm, an ORR of 44.9%, a PFS of 7.1 months and
an OS of 23.5 months were observed. While ORR and PFS were comparable in KRAS
wild-type and mutant subgroups, a trend toward longer survival was associated
with KRAS wild-type. Both regimens had manageable toxicity profiles and were
safe.
CONCLUSION: This randomized trial demonstrates that the addition of cetuximab to 
CAPIRI or CAPOX is effective and safe in first-line treatment of mCRC. In the
analyzed regimens, ORR and PFS did not differ according to KRAS gene mutation
status.