This open label, single arm phase II study was designed to evaluate the efficacy 
and safety of the addition of cetuximab to first line chemotherapy with
carboplatin and weekly docetaxel in patients with advanced non small-cell lung
cancer (NSCLC). From February 2007 to December 2008 74 patients with NSCLC (stage
IIIB and IV), ECOG PS =2 and no prior systemic chemotherapy were enrolled and
treated with carboplatin (area under the curve=5 on day 1) and docetaxel (35
mg/m(2) on days 1, 8, and 15). Cycles were repeated every 4 weeks for a minimum
of 4 and a maximum of 6 cycles. Cetuximab (400mg/m(2) on day 1 with subsequent
doses of 250 mg/m(2) weekly) was administered until progression or intolerable
toxicity up to a maximum treatment duration of 12 months. The primary endpoint
was the overall response rate (CR+PR) according to RECIST. Secondary endpoints
were progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and toxicity.
Patients received a median of 4 cycles of docetaxel-carboplatin-chemotherapy. The
median number of administrations of cetuximab was 14. Sixty-seven patients were
evaluable for response. Partial response was seen in 29/67 patients corresponding
to an overall response rate (ORR) of 43.3% (95%CI, 28.5-53.7). No patient
experienced complete response. The clinical benefit rate (PR+SD) was 79.1%. The
1-year rates for PFS and OS were 11.2% and 64.4%, respectively. Median PFS was
4.8 months (95%CI, 3.70-5.31) and median OS 12.9 months (95%CI 8.26-8). Adverse
events were mainly grades 1-2. Skin toxicity (76% of pts), dyspnea (36.5%) and
anemia (31.1%) were most frequent. Results from this phase II study suggest that 
the addition of cetuximab to first-line doublet carboplatin and weekly docetaxel 
results in a considerable clinical efficacy with an acceptable toxicity profile
for patients with advanced or metastatic NSCLC.