BACKGROUND: Mucinous carcinoma of the colon and rectum (mucinous CRC) is a
histological subtype of colorectal adenocarcinoma for which there is little data 
on chemotherapy responsiveness. The purpose of this study was to investigate
specifically the efficacy of fluorouracil-based first-line chemotherapy in
patients with advanced mucinous CRC.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All patients with advanced mucinous CRC enrolled in three
prospective randomized trials evaluating infused 5-fluorouracil as first-line
treatment were compared with patients with non-mucinous subtypes enrolled in the 
same trials in a case-control study. Prognostic factors associated with overall
response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)
were identified using univariate and multivariate logistic and/or Cox
proportional hazards analyses.
RESULTS: The study included 135 patients (45 cases and 90 controls). The response
rates for cases and controls were 22% [95% confidence interval (CI), 11% to 38%] 
and 47% (95% CI, 36.1% to 58.2%), respectively (P=0.0058). Median OS for the
mucinous CRC patients was 11.8 months (95% CI, 8.87-14.8) compared with 17.9
months (95% CI, 13.38-22.39) in the control group (univariate analysis, P=0.056);
after correcting for significant prognostic factors by multivariate Cox
regression analysis, P=0.0372 and hazard ratio (HR)=1.497 (1.02-2.19).
CONCLUSION: Patients with advanced mucinous CRC have a poorer response to
fluorouracil-based first-line chemotherapy and reduced survival compared with
patients with non-mucinous CRC.