BACKGROUND: Gemcitabine infusion at the fixed dose rate of 10 mg/m(2) per minute 
(FDR-gemcitabine) has pharmacokinetic advantages and may result in improved
therapeutic efficacy.
METHODS: Between April 2002 and September 2003, 40 patients with advanced-stage
pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC; n = 27) or biliary tree carcinoma (BTC; n = 13) 
were treated with weekly FDR-gemcitabine (1000 mg/m(2)). The primary end point
was the response rate. The secondary end points were progression-free and overall
survival (PFS and OS), tumor marker response, and clinical benefit response
(CBR).
RESULTS: The overall response rate (ORR) on an intent-to-treat basis was 15% (95%
confidence interval [95% CI], 4-26%). A positive CBR was obtained in 14 of 29
(48%) patients. Seventeen of 25 (68%) patients had a reduction in carbohydrate
antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9) of > 25%. The median time to treatment failure and the
median PFS were 17 weeks (95% CI, 13-22 weeks) and 19 weeks (95% CI, 15-23
weeks), respectively. The median OS was 40 weeks (95% CI, 36-45 weeks) and the
1-year actuarial survival rate was 25.8%. Multivariate analysis showed that a
performance status score of 0-1 at study entry and locally advanced disease were 
the only independent predictors of longer PFS and OS, whereas a reduction in CA
19-9 serum levels > 75% was an independent predictor of longer PFS, but had no
impact on OS. Toxicity was mild with Grade 3-4 neutropenia (according to the
National Cancer Institute-Common Toxicity Criteria [version 2.0]) in 18 of 427
treatment weeks (4.2%), and Grade 3 anemia and thrombocytopenia in 6 of 427
treatment weeks (1.4%) and 9 of 427 treatment weeks (2.1%), respectively, and
asymptomatic Grade 3-4 transaminase elevation in 21 of 427 treatment weeks
(4.9%).
CONCLUSIONS: FDR-gemcitabine at the weekly dose of 1000 mg/m(2) demonstrated
promising activity, despite negligible toxicity, in patients with advanced-stage 
PDAC and BTC.