BACKGROUND: A biweekly regimen of irinotecan 200 mg/m2 on day 1 and
levo-leucovorin (LV) 250 mg/m2 plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) 850 mg/m2 via
intravenous bolus on day 2 was assessed in 2 consecutive randomized trials in
metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Individual data of 254 patients were merged, and baseline
features potentially affecting overall response rate (ORR), progression-free
survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and occurrence of severe toxicity were
analyzed by univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: In the pooled series, ORR was 33% (95% confidence interval [CI],
27%-39%). Liver-only disease (47% vs. 25%; P=0.0012) and absence of previous
weight loss (38% vs. 20%; P=0.0189) were significantly associated with a higher
ORR on the multivariate analysis. Absence of weight loss (hazard ratio, 1.40; 95%
CI, 1.02-1.93; P=0.0377) was significantly associated with a longer PFS (7.5
months vs. 6 months). Median OS was 15.1 months (95% CI, 13.5-16.6 months).
Primary surgery, good performance status (PS), only one metastatic site, and
oxaliplatin-based second-line treatment independently predicted a longer OS.
Grade 4 neutropenia was significantly associated with a PS>or=1, whereas risk of 
grade>or=3 diarrhea was directly related to age and previous weight loss.
CONCLUSION: Patients with no weight loss and/or preserved PS and with a limited
disease extent appeared to obtain the greatest benefit from our
irinotecan/5-FU/LV regimen, with acceptable toxicity. Notably, the regimen was
effective and well tolerated by elderly patients. This regimen may represent the 
rationale for assessing the addition of novel antiangiogenic drugs to the
treatment of metastatic CRC.