PURPOSE: To assess the safety and efficacy of sunitinib in patients with
bevacizumab-refractory metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) and explore
biomarkers for sunitinib response.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with mRCC and disease progression after
bevacizumab-based therapy received oral sunitinib 50 mg once daily in 6-week
cycles on a 4/2 schedule (4 weeks with treatment followed by 2 weeks without
treatment) in a phase II multicenter study. The primary end point was objective
response rate (ORR). Secondary end points included progression-free survival
(PFS), duration of response (DR), overall survival (OS), and safety. Plasma
soluble proteins (vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF]-A, VEGF-C, soluble
VEGF receptor [sVEGFR]-3, and placental growth factor [PlGF]) levels were
measured.
RESULTS: Sixty-one patients were enrolled. The ORR was 23.0% (95% CI, 13.2% to
35.5%), median PFS was 30.4 weeks (95% CI, 18.3 to 36.7 weeks), median DR was
44.1 weeks (95% CI, 25.0 to 102.7 weeks), and median OS was 47.1 weeks (95% CI,
36.9 to 79.4 weeks). Mean plasma VEGF-A and PlGF levels significantly increased
whereas VEGF-C and sVEGFR-3 levels decreased with sunitinib treatment. Lower
baseline levels of sVEGFR-3 and VEGF-C were associated with longer PFS and ORR.
Most treatment-related adverse events were of mild-to-moderate intensity and
included fatigue, hypertension, and hand-foot syndrome.
CONCLUSION: Sunitinib has substantial antitumor activity in patients with
bevacizumab-refractory mRCC and modulates circulating VEGF pathway biomarkers.
These data support the hypothesis that sunitinib inhibits signaling pathways
involved in bevacizumab resistance. Baseline levels of sVEGFR-3 and VEGF-C may
have potential utility as biomarkers of clinical efficacy in this setting.