Elderly patients constitute a subpopulation with special characteristics that
differ from those of the general population and have been under-represented in
clinical trials. We, prospectively, analyzed the toxicity and efficacy of the
original FOLFOX4-regimen in the treatment of elderly patients affected by
metastatic (m) colorectal cancer (CRC). Thirty-six consecutive patients aged
67-82 years (median age 72 years), 22 males and 14 females, with mCRC and
measurable disease, were enrolled in the study. The primary site of metastases
was the liver (36.1% of patients). The median ECOG Performance Status (PS) was 1.
The main hematological and extra-hematological (grade 3 or 4) toxicities were
neutropenia (38.9%) and neurological (13.9%), respectively. A total of 36
patients, aged 67-82 years were included. Twenty-two and 14 patients were male
and female, respectively. The median age was 72 years (range 67-82). The primary 
site of metastases was the liver (36.1% of patients). The median ECOG Performance
Status (PS) was 1. The overall response rate (ORR) was 44.4% and similar to
original study. Median progression-free survival (PFS) was 7.5 months and median 
overall survival (OS) was 16 months. The main hematological and
extra-hematological (grade 3 or 4) toxicities were neutropenia (38.9%) and
neurological (13.9%), respectively. Tolerability, however, was manageable and no 
toxic death occurred. FOLFOX4-regimen maintains its efficacy, and safety ratio in
elderly patients with mCRC and good performance status. It would be considered
the treatment of choice in the treatment of this particular setting of patients.