PURPOSE: Amrubicin is a synthetic anthracycline with potent topoisomerase II
inhibition. This phase II study was conducted to confirm safety and activity of
amrubicin in the treatment of refractory small-cell lung cancer (SCLC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with refractory SCLC (either with progressive
disease as best response or progression within 90 days of first-line therapy)
received amrubicin (40 mg/m(2)/d for 3 every 21 days). The primary end point was 
overall response rate (ORR); secondary end points included progression-free
survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and change in left ventricular ejection
fraction (LVEF).
RESULTS: Seventy-five patients with a median progression-free interval after
first-line therapy of 38 days were enrolled; 69 patients received a median of
four amrubicin cycles (range, one to 12 cycles). The ORR was 21.3% (95% CI, 12.7%
to 32.3%), with one complete response (1.3%) and 15 partial responses (20%).
Median PFS and OS were 3.2 months (95% CI, 2.4 to 4.0 months) and 6.0 months (95%
CI, 4.8 to 7.1 months), respectively. The ORR in 43 patients who never responded 
to first-line therapy was 16.3% (95% CI, 6.8% to 30.7%). Most commonly reported
grade 3 or 4 adverse events included neutropenia (67%), thrombocytopenia (41%),
and anemia (30%), with febrile neutropenia in 12%. There was no decrease in mean 
LVEF with cumulative amrubicin doses exceeding 750 mg/m(2).
CONCLUSION: Single-agent amrubicin showed promising activity with a 21.3% ORR and
an acceptable safety profile when used as second-line therapy patients with
platinum-refractory SCLC. Amrubicin did not induce early cardiotoxicity, but its 
long-term effects are unknown.