In order to examine the efficacy and safety of nanoparticle albumin-bound
paclitaxel (nab-P) in combination with bevacizumab (B) and gemcitabine (G) for
the first-line treatment of patients with HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer 
(MBC). In this single-center, open-label phase II trial, patients with
HER2-negative MBC received gemcitabine 1500 mg/m(2), nab-paclitaxel 150 mg/m(2), 
and bevacizumab 10 mg/kg (each administered intravenously) on days 1 and 15 of a 
28-day cycle. The primary end point was progression free survival (PFS);
secondary end points were overall response rate (ORR), complete (CR) and partial 
(PR) response rates, clinical benefit (ORR + stable disease), overall survival
(OS), and safety. Thirty patients were enrolled. One patient was ineligible and
was not included in analysis. Median PFS was 10.4 months (95% CI: 5.6-15.2
months). ORR was 75.9%, comprising eight (27.6%) CRs and 14 (48.3%) PRs; five
patients had stable disease (SD) and two patients (6.9%) had progressive disease 
(PD) as their best response. The clinical benefit rate was 93.1% (27/29) in the
overall group and 84.6% in the triple-negative cohort (11/13). The 18-month
survival rate was 77.2% (95% CI: 51.1-90.5%). Eight (27.6%) patients experienced 
grade 3 or 4 toxicity: grade 4 neutropenic fever (n = 1) and grade 3 infection (n
= 6), leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, peripheral neuropathy, seizure, shortness of 
breath, hematuria, and cardiac tamponade (one each). First-line therapy with
nab-P, B, and G demonstrated a median PFS of 10.4 months and a 75.9% ORR with
acceptable toxicity; this novel combination warrants investigation in a
randomized study.