Patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) previously treated with
anthracyclines and taxanes often have decreased performance status secondary to
extensive tumor involvement. Here, we report the pooled analysis of efficacy and 
safety data from two similarly designed phase III studies to provide a more
precise estimate of benefit of ixabepilone plus capecitabine in MBC patients with
Karnofsky's performance status (KPS) 70-80. Across the studies,
anthracycline/taxane-pretreated MBC patients were randomized to receive
ixabepilone plus capecitabine or capecitabine alone. Individual patient data for 
KPS 70-80 subset (n = 606) or KPS 90-100 subset (n = 1349) from the two studies
were pooled by treatment. Analysis included overall survival (OS),
progression-free survival (PFS), objective response rate (ORR), and safety. In
patients with reduced performance status (KPS 70-80), ixabepilone plus
capecitabine was associated with improvements in OS (median: 12.3 vs. 9.5 months;
HR, 0.75; P = 0.0015), PFS (median: 4.6 vs. 3.1 months; HR, 0.76; P = 0.0021) and
ORR (35 vs. 19%) over capecitabine alone. Corresponding results in patients with 
high performance status (KPS 90-100) were median OS of 16.7 versus 16.2 months
(HR, 0.98; P = 0.8111), median PFS of 6.0 versus 4.4 months (HR, 0.58;
P = 0.0009), and ORR of 45 versus 28%. The safety profile of combination therapy 
was similar between the subgroups. Ixabepilone plus capecitabine appeared to show
superior efficacy compared to capecitabine alone in MBC patients previously
treated with anthracyclines and taxanes, regardless of performance status, with a
possible OS benefit favoring KPS 70-80 patients (ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers: 
NCT00080301 and NCT00082433).