BACKGROUND: This phase II study estimated the difference in objective response
rate (ORR) among patients with advanced nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) receiving paclitaxel-carboplatin (CP) plus motesanib or bevacizumab.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Chemotherapy-naive patients (N = 186) were randomized 1:1:1
to receive CP plus motesanib 125 mg once daily (qd) (arm A), motesanib 75 mg
twice daily (b.i.d.) 5 days on/2 days off (arm B), or bevacizumab 15 mg/kg every 
3 weeks (q3w) (arm C). The primary end point was ORR (per RECIST). Other end
points included progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), motesanib
pharmacokinetics, and adverse events (AEs).
RESULTS: ORRs in the three arms were as follows: arm A, 30% (95% confidence
interval 18% to 43%); arm B, 23% (13% to 36%); and arm C, 37% (25% to 50%).
Median PFS in arm A was 7.7 months, arm B 5.8 months, and arm C 8.3 months;
median OS for arm A was 14.0 months, arm B 12.8 months, and arm C 14.0 months.
Incidence of AEs was greater in arms A and B than in arm C. More grade 5 AEs not 
attributable to disease progression occurred in arm B (n = 10) than in arms A (n 
= 4) and C (n = 4). Motesanib plasma C(max) and C(min) values were consistent
with its pharmacokinetic properties observed in previous studies.
CONCLUSIONS: The efficacy of 125 mg qd motesanib or bevacizumab plus CP was
estimated to be comparable. Toxicity was higher but manageable in both motesanib 
arms. Efficacy and tolerability of motesanib 125 mg qd plus CP in advanced
nonsquamous NSCLC are being further investigated in a phase III study.