Treatments for women with recurrent brain metastases from breast cancer are
limited. In this phase II study,we administered sagopilone to patients with
breast cancer and brain metastases. We observed modest activity with a central
nervous system objective response rate of 13.3%; however, median PFS was
disappointing. Further studies should focus on other agents to treat this
challenging clinical problem.BACKGROUND: Patients with progressive metastatic
breast cancer to the central nervous system (CNS) have limited treatment options.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a phase II study of sagopilone, an epothilone 
B analogue that crosses the blood-brain barrier, in patients with breast cancer
brain metastases. Women were treated with 16 mg/m(2) or 22 mg/m(2) intravenously 
every 21 days. The primary endpoint was CNS objective response rate (ORR).
Secondary endpoints included toxicity, progression-free survival (PFS), and
overall survival (OS). Using modified, high-resolution magnetic resonance
angiography (MRA), we also evaluated changes in vessel tortuosity with treatment.
RESULTS: Fifteen women were enrolled; all had progressive CNS disease despite
whole-brain radiotherapy. Two patients achieved a partial response (ORR, 13.3%)
and remained in the study for 6 cycles. Responses were not associated with
normalization of tumor-associated vessels on correlative imaging studies. Median 
PFS and OS were 1.4 months and 5.3 months, respectively. The most common grade 3 
toxicities were lymphopenia and fatigue. Enrollment was stopped prematurely
because of limited observed activity and slow accrual.
CONCLUSIONS: Sagopilone was associated with modest CNS activity in patients with 
breast cancer; however median PFS was disappointing. Further studies should
examine other potentially active agents and/or combinations for this challenging 
clinical problem.