The present study evaluated activity and toxicity of modulated doses of
gemcitabine associated to oxaliplatin in patients with secondary CIRS and with
locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma (LAPC) and metastatic pancreatic
adenocarcinoma (MPC). Since January 2006, untreated LAPC and MPC patients have
been assessed with ADL, IADL, CIRS to modulate chemotherapy dosages according to 
co-morbidity stage. Patiens aged<75 years, co-morbidity stage
primary/intermediate, or =75 years and co-morbidity stage primary, received
gemcitabine 1,000 mg/m² as a 10 mg/m²/min infusion on day 1 and oxaliplatin 70
mg/m² as a 2-h infusion on day 2 every 2 weeks. Patiens aged<75 years,
co-morbidity stage secondary or =75 years and co-morbidity stage
intermediate/secondary patients received gemcitabine 800 mg/m². Primary endpoint 
was the overall response rate (ORR). Secondary endpoints were disease control
rate (DCR), PFS, OS and toxicity. Thirty-one patients were recruited: 26% (8/31) 
LAPC and 74% (23/31) MPC; median age 69 years. Co-morbidity stage
primary/intermediate, 19; secondary, 12. Twenty-seven valuable patients: ORR 30% 
(CI±0.14); disease control rate 85% (CI±0.18). Median follow-up 13 months: median
PFS and OS were 6 and 15 months, respectively. Valuable cycles 140. Grade 3/4
toxicity per patient: leukopenia, 18.5%; neutropenia, 55,5%; thrombocytopenia,
7.4%; SGOT/SGPT, 7.4%; gamma-GT, 7.4%; fever without neutropenia, 3.7%. Median
received dose intensity: gemcitabine 400 mg/m2/w; oxaliplatin 35 mg/m2/w.
Modulation of GemOx chemotherapy according, to CIRS stage in advanced pancreatic 
cancer confirms reported efficacy and tolerability.