Gefiinib and erlotinib are two similar small molecules of selective and
reversible epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors
(EGFR-TKIs), which have been approved for second-line or third-line indication in
previously treated advanced Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. The
results of comparing the EGFR-TKI with standard platinum-based doublet
chemotherapy as the first-line treatment in advanced NSCLC patients with
activated EGFR mutation were still controversial. A meta-analysis was performed
to derive a more precise estimation of these regimens. Finally, six eligible
trials involved 1,021 patients were identified. The patients receiving EGFR-TKI
as front-line therapy had a significantly longer progression-free survival (PFS) 
than patients treated with chemotherapy [median PFS was 9.5 versus 5.9 months;
hazard ratio (HR)=0.37; 95% confidence intervals (CI)=0.27-0.52; p<0.001]. The
overall response rate (ORR) of EGFR-TKI was 66.60%, whereas the ORR of
chemotherapy regimen was 30.62%, which was also a statistically significant favor
for EGFR-TKI [relative risk (RR)=5.68; 95% CI=3.17-10.18; p<0.001]. The overall
survival (OS) was numerically longer in the patients received EGFR-TKI than
patients treated by chemotherapy, although the difference did not reach a
statistical significance (median OS was 30.5 vs. 23.6 months; HR=0.94; 95%
CI=0.77-1.15; p=0.57). Comparing with first-line chemotherapy, treatment of
EGFR-TKI achieved a statistical significantly longer PFS, higher ORR and
numerically longer OS in the advanced NSCLC patients harboring activated EGFR
mutations, thus, it should be the first choice in the previously untreated NSCLC 
patients with activated EGFR mutation.